
## 2.3. The IntersectionObserverEntry interface

```
[Exposed=Window]
interface IntersectionObserverEntry {
  constructor(IntersectionObserverEntryInit intersectionObserverEntryInit);
  readonly attribute DOMHighResTimeStamp time;
  readonly attribute DOMRectReadOnly? rootBounds;
  readonly attribute DOMRectReadOnly boundingClientRect;
  readonly attribute DOMRectReadOnly intersectionRect;
  readonly attribute boolean isIntersecting;
  readonly attribute boolean isVisible;
  readonly attribute double intersectionRatio;
  readonly attribute Element target;
};

dictionary IntersectionObserverEntryInit {
  required DOMHighResTimeStamp time;
  required DOMRectInit? rootBounds;
  required DOMRectInit boundingClientRect;
  required DOMRectInit intersectionRect;
  required boolean isIntersecting;
  required boolean isVisible;
  required double intersectionRatio;
  required Element target;
};
```

*boundingClientRect, of type DOMRectReadOnly, readonly**
    A DOMRectReadOnly obtained by getting the bounding box for target.
intersectionRect, of type DOMRectReadOnly, readonly

    boundingClientRect, intersected by each of target's ancestors' clip rects (up to but not including root), intersected with the root intersection rectangle. This value represents the portion of target that intersects with the root intersection rectangle.
isIntersecting, of type boolean, readonly

    True if the target intersects with the root; false otherwise. This flag makes it possible to distinguish between an IntersectionObserverEntry signalling the transition from intersecting to not-intersecting; and an IntersectionObserverEntry signalling a transition from not-intersecting to intersecting with a zero-area intersection rect (as will happen with edge-adjacent intersections, or when the boundingClientRect has zero area).
isVisible, of type boolean, readonly

    Contains the result of running the visibility algorithm on target.
intersectionRatio, of type double, readonly

    If the boundingClientRect has non-zero area, this will be the ratio of intersectionRect area to boundingClientRect area. Otherwise, this will be 1 if the isIntersecting is true, and 0 if not.
rootBounds, of type DOMRectReadOnly, readonly, nullable

    For a same-origin-domain target, this will be the root intersection rectangle. Otherwise, this will be null. Note that if the target is in a different browsing context than the intersection root, this will be in a different coordinate system than boundingClientRect and intersectionRect.
target, of type Element, readonly

    The Element whose intersection with the intersection root changed.
time, of type DOMHighResTimeStamp, readonly

    The attribute must return a DOMHighResTimeStamp that corresponds to the time the intersection was recorded, relative to the time origin of the global object associated with the IntersectionObserver instance that generated the notification.
