## 2.4. The IntersectionObserverInit dictionary

```
dictionary IntersectionObserverInit {
  (Element or Document)?  root = null;
  DOMString rootMargin = "0px";
  DOMString scrollMargin = "0px";
  (double or sequence<double>) threshold = 0;
  long delay = 0;
  boolean trackVisibility = false;
};
```

root, of type (Element or Document), nullable, defaulting to null

    The root to use for intersection. If not provided, use the implicit root.
rootMargin, of type DOMString, defaulting to "0px"

    Similar to the CSS margin property, this is a string of 1-4 components, each either an absolute length or a percentage.

    "5px"                // all margins set to 5px
    "5px 10px"           // top & bottom = 5px, right & left = 10px
    "-10px 5px 8px"      // top = -10px, right & left = 5px, bottom = 8px
    "-10px -5px 5px 8px" // top = -10px, right = -5px, bottom = 5px, left = 8px

scrollMargin, of type DOMString, defaulting to "0px"

    Similar to rootMargin, this is a string of 1-4 components, each either an absolute length or a percentage.

    See rootMargin above for the example.
threshold, of type (double or sequence<double>), defaulting to 0

    List of threshold(s) at which to trigger callback. callback will be invoked when intersectionRect’s area changes from greater than or equal to any threshold to less than that threshold, and vice versa.

    Threshold values must be in the range of [0, 1.0] and represent a percentage of the area of the rectangle produced by getting the bounding box for target.

    Note: 0.0 is effectively "any non-zero number of pixels".
delay, of type long, defaulting to 0

    A number specifying the minimum delay in milliseconds between notifications from the observer for a given target.
trackVisibility, of type boolean, defaulting to false

    A boolean indicating whether the observer should track visibility. Note that tracking visibility is likely to be a more expensive operation than tracking intersections. It is recommended that this option be used only when necessary.

